Ladies and gentlemen,
I introduce our first presenter,
and that would be architect Dr.
Stuart Chechire.
Okay, I want to thank you all for coming.
It's great to see such a full
room on a Friday morning,
last day of the conference.
And I'd like to believe that it's
because you're here to see me,
but I know it's really because you've
all experienced firsthand the frustration
of trying to set up network devices.
And Apple's not the first company
to realize the importance of this,
but I believe we're the first
company to succeed with a
solution that really works.
I'd like to start with a show of hands.
How many people in the room
now are IT administrators,
network administrators?
Okay.
That's a good turnout.
So, I'm going to start with a few
We have a lot of new stuff
in Rendezvous this year.
This has been the biggest
year for Rendezvous,
and we've got more stuff to announce this
year than last year or the year before.
So I'm going to get right into it.
We've got so much new stuff,
we should be calling it Rendezvous
2 or Super Rendezvous or something.
So there are three big areas
where we've gone beyond Panther in
three different dimensions.
We've gone beyond the local LAN.
In Jaguar and Panther,
Rendezvous was focused at the area of
IP networking that's least well served,
which is a small network just
plugging things together.
But in Tiger, we now expand that beyond
the local LAN using standard
unicast queries and updates.
People have raised this criticism before,
oh,
Rendezvous is only for local networks.
It doesn't scale to the enterprise.
Well, we've left the enterprise behind.
Because we're built on DNS,
DNS is a worldwide database.
It's the biggest distributed
database in the world.
And because of that, in Tiger,
you can browse any domain that's
advertising services anywhere on the
planet from anywhere on the planet.
So we now scale to the whole planet.
We go beyond the old Rendezvous
in another very important way,
which is while we always
had the Darwin code,
which ran on a variety
of different platforms,
it was a little bit inaccessible.
What we have today,
just announced this week,
is a Rendezvous system service
daemon running in the background,
just like it does on OS X,
running on Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris,
other Unix systems, and of course,
Windows.
How many people in the
audience develop for Windows?
Nearly half.
Exactly as we expected.
And the good news now,
you can go to the Apple developer
website and download our
technology preview for Windows,
run the installer,
and you get the exact same DNS underscore
SD dot H API that's provided on Panther,
the same API that's provided
on Linux and FreeBSD and
Solaris and the Unix platforms.
So the same C code you write is now
portable across all of those platforms.
And the other way we go beyond the
old Rendezvous is beyond C APIs.
The current APIs are C header files.
We now have a fully supported
Java class library that provides
you the full functionality.
We announced this at a talk at
Java 1 this week and got a big
enthusiastic reaction there as well.
Java people have been
waiting for this a long time.
So you have the full suite of
Rendezvous facilities available to you,
but with object-oriented Java-style APIs.
And the other area where we go
beyond Rendezvous is not just Java,
but we go beyond C2, C#, Visual Basic,
all of the .NET languages
on Windows as well.
So you can now write
Visual Basic programs using Rendezvous.
So an outline of what we're
going to talk about today.
I'm going to recap what
Rendezvous is about,
because most Mac users and
developers know about it,
but I want to make sure that
we're not leaving anybody behind.
We're going to talk about the wide area
of service discovery and advertising.
We're going to show you
Rendezvous running on Windows and
on the Unix platforms.
We're going to tell you
about the Java APIs,
and the APIs that we have in
Panther proved to be very good.
We didn't have any bugs
or omissions to fix,
but we have added a couple
of new helper functions,
which I'll tell you about.
And you may have seen a setting up here.
We just had a whole
suitcase full of stuff.
We had the Rendezvous plug fest
at the Apple campus last night,
and we told people that if
they brought cool stuff,
then we'd try to show it,
and we got a whole suitcase of stuff.
So if it weren't for Rendezvous,
it wouldn't be a Rendezvous.
It would be insane to try to
set up 20 different devices
in 15 minutes to do a demo,
but because of Rendezvous,
we'll see if this works.
And we hope to have
time for Q&A at the end.
So, quick recap, what is Rendezvous?
First and most important
is it's a philosophy.
It's an attitude,
and it's the attitude that you should be
able to just plug things in and have them
work without fussing with addresses and
subnet masks and nonsense configuration.
And that's what's most important,
and I always say that first,
because people forget that.
Rendezvous is not about technology.
Rendezvous is about the goal of
making products that just work.
If you think about
plugging in a USB device,
you don't have to type
addresses to configure it,
you just plug it in.
And there's no reason Ethernet
should be any different,
or wireless.
So that's the most important thing.
But there are underlying technologies
that enable us to reach that vision,
and those are addressing, naming,
and discovery.
Now,
I'm not going to go into these in the
same detail I have at previous talks,
but just to recap,
you're not going to do much
IP addressing without an address.
DHCP is great, but if there isn't a
DHCP server on the network,
all of these Rendezvous devices
will pick their own address.
Second thing,
having a bunch of random IP addresses
is certainly a first step,
but it's not sufficient,
because if you don't know
what all the IP addresses are,
you're not a lot better off.
So the second step is naming,
and the normal usage model for
Internet software is DNS hostnames.
DNS is great if you have a DNS server,
but if you don't,
then we need a safety net.
And the safety net is multicast DNS,
where you send a standard
format DNS query,
you multicast it to everybody
on the local network,
and each device has its little
multicast DNS responder.
And when it sees a query for its name,
it says, "That's me," and it answers.
So this doesn't replace or compete
with global scale wide area DNS,
but it's the safety net when you
have just two devices and a cable,
or three or four devices in a hub,
and you don't have a DNS server setup.
And the third leg is discovery,
because using host names is
better than using addresses,
but you still need to
know what name to use.
And discovery lets you
browse the network,
like the faithful old Apple talk chooser,
and see what's out there and
click on it without having to
know in advance what the name is.
And why do you care
as product developers?
Well, you care because if the
user can't use your product,
then they're going to call you,
they're going to run up support costs,
and ultimately they may return it.
I witnessed something at a startup
a few years ago here in California,
in Silicon Valley,
at the heart of the computer industry.
They bought a $1,500 high-end
HP laser jet printer,
double-sided stapling in the corners,
very, very beautiful, fancy machine,
plugged it into the network.
Apple Talk auto-configured.
The Mac users were
printing on it right away.
They could not get IP set up.
These were guys with masters and PhDs
from Stanford doing a dot-com startup.
They could not make it work.
After two days,
they put it back in the styrofoam,
took it back to Fry's, and returned it.
And that's just a tragic story,
which is why today every major printer
vendor has Rendezvous in their printers,
because they don't want...
They don't want the
printers being returned.
But what is more exciting to me
is not just taking the current
stuff and making it easier,
but the fact that when you
don't have to configure it,
entirely new product
categories become possible.
And that's where I think we're going
to see a lot of the exciting things.
You will all have seen the
announcement for our Airport Express.
This has no screen, this has no keyboard,
but it shows up in a pop-up menu in
iTunes for you to play your music.
That wouldn't be possible if
you had to type in addresses
and netmasks and things.
This product wouldn't exist.
So that's where I think we're
going to see the excitement
in the next couple of years.
So, to summarize,
Rendezvous has grown both
in breadth and in depth.
It's grown in breadth in
terms of reaching more
platforms and more languages,
and it's grown also in that it
now scales beyond the local link.
Geographically,
it's grown to scale to the whole world.
So, don't even try to read this.
I'm not here to talk to
you today about UPnP,
but whenever we meet with developers,
it's a question that comes up,
what about UPnP?
And the UPnP forum loves to proclaim
how many hundreds of companies they
have signed up for their forum,
but they only have one
credible product today,
after all those years of work,
and I'm being generous by
even calling it credible.
That's the UPnP home gateway protocol,
and it really doesn't
even work very well,
but that's the only thing that they
can kind of point to as their success.
Well, never mind the forum and
the hundreds of companies.
We have hundreds of products.
This is from the list of registered
Rendezvous service types from the
DNS service discovery website,
and this is just the first page, and...
It goes on, and I won't go page
after page after page.
We're only on to the letter I here.
We're only on the ninth
letter of the alphabet.
Every one of these registered services,
this is not a product,
this is a protocol.
So for every one of these,
there are one or more
servers advertising that,
clients browsing for that.
If it's a network game,
it may be a server and a
client from the same company.
In the case of protocols like SSH,
Telnet, FTP,
there are of course dozens of
servers and clients advertising that.
So we have this huge adoption,
this quiet revolution going on
that people almost aren't aware of,
and daily this list of
registered Rendezvous services
gets longer and longer.
So on that note,
I'd like to invite Kiren Sekar
up on stage to tell you all
about Wide Area Rendezvous.
[Transcript missing]
This doesn't use Rendezvous.
Take for instance a network game.
All of a sudden,
you can collaborate with another
game player across the internet
with just a couple API calls.
It's that easy.
It provides a great user experience,
and it's easy for you too,
allowing you to focus on
your core competencies,
which is creating great applications,
not messing around with
this networking stuff.
If you manage a network
environment like in an enterprise,
you might have found yourself choosing
between a network that's easy for you
to administer and a network that's
easy for your users to interact with.
And with Wide Area Rendezvous,
you get both.
And of course,
like Local Rendezvous has done,
Wide Area Rendezvous will
add a competitive advantage
to your hardware products,
making them better for your
customers to interact with,
and ultimately lowering
your support costs.
Now, as Stuart explained,
when we set about solving
the local problem,
we focused on a few core
pieces of functionality.
And moving forward with
Wide Area Rendezvous,
we're doing the exact same thing.
First, we give every machine
a dynamic DNS hostname.
This is much like the link
local name on local Rendezvous,
but now the name is globally unique,
meaning it can be looked up
and accessed from anywhere.
And this name is persistent,
meaning as you move between your
home and your cafe and your office,
the name stays the same even
as your IP address changes.
This is the first big
step towards reachability.
This alone brings us
so much functionality.
But we go ahead and
take it a step further.
First of all, we don't want to have
to remember these names.
And even more importantly,
we want to learn about new machines
that we didn't know about before,
but they're providing some
service that's of interest to us.
So we take the DNS service discovery
and registration that we have on the
local network and publish this into a
global namespace where these services can
be accessed potentially from anywhere.
Now, it's easiest to explain the
architecture to the solutions of
this functionality in the framework
of local Rendezvous that we all know.
Local Rendezvous, of course,
starts with DNS service
discovery on the top.
And that is the APIs that your
applications use to browse
and register for services.
And of course,
the resource record format,
using standard DNS messages to encode
information about your services.
Now beneath this, we have multicast DNS,
the serverless protocol for
registering and querying for these
DNS records on the local network.
With Wide Area Rendezvous,
we simply slide out the multicast
DNS layer and use unicast DNS,
communicating directly with a DNS server.
Now, in the difference between
this architecture and our
previous local architecture,
what has stayed the same
is just as important,
if not more important,
than what has changed,
and that's DNS service discovery.
This means that our
APIs are 100% unchanged.
The exact APIs that you've been
using for the last two years will
give you all of this new wide area
functionality with little to no
modification in your applications.
When we first did local Rendezvous,
many people asked,
why are we using the DNS message format?
And back then we did
have some good reasons.
There were a wealth of debugging tools.
Developers already knew
the message format,
just to name a few.
But now is where we
see the really big win.
By making that decision
for local Rendezvous,
we're allowed to keep the same
protocol and the same APIs,
and instead communicate with these
DNS servers that automatically know
how to understand our messages.
We can look at some of the
specific advantages of the DNS,
both on the discovery using the
DNS queries and the registration
side using dynamic updates.
Let's start by looking at registration,
or pardon me, with discovery.
To discover a service or to look
up information about a service,
we format a standard DNS query,
like we would have done
with local Rendezvous,
and instead of sending
it out on the network,
we send it directly to our
DNS server and get an answer.
It's really that easy.
But along with it being easy,
we inherit this huge wealth of
advantages that DNS has to offer.
DNS has extensive caching,
DNS is distributed in nature,
and perhaps most importantly,
DNS is ubiquitous.
There are servers everywhere.
Now, getting the information off
the server is pretty easy,
but how do we get
information to the server?
How do we publish our services
and register our name?
After all, DNS was initially made for a
relatively static data set.
When it did change,
it was usually an administrator actually
typing in something in a text file.
Fortunately,
that problem has been solved for
us as well with Dynamic DNS Update.
As you probably know,
Dynamic Update allows a client to
publish resource records into a server.
And we use this to publish our
globally unique address record.
And this is one of the more
conventional uses for Dynamic Update.
In addition, we take our service records,
the records like the pointer record,
the text record, the SRV record,
that convey information about
the services that we're offering,
and publish those into the DNS as well.
Now, we have this distributed
system of databases just
ready to accept our services.
Which ones are we going to use?
Well,
if you manage an enterprise network,
chances are you might set one up.
And we've gone ahead and set one up too.
And it turns out it's pretty big.
That's right,
.Mac now supports dynamic DNS.
This is included with
the standard.mac service,
and each user gets their own name,
user.members.mac.com.
Within this domain,
they can publish the names of any
number of machines that they own,
and any number of services
that they wish to advertise.
This server was built from the ground
up to support wide area Rendezvous,
so the software is highly tuned,
and unless you come from Virginia Tech,
their rack of extras will make you drool.
But it turns out,
if you're not supporting
half a million users,
you don't need anything like that.
In fact, a standard DNS server
will work just fine,
and that's what we do with
our Tiger server offering.
We use bind9,
the tried and tested DNS server,
and include a UI that makes setting
up wide area Rendezvous even easier.
Now, when we're registering into
these servers and potentially
across the internet with .Mac,
this of course creates a whole
new range of possibilities for
the visibility of our services.
With .Mac,
services are truly globally visible.
When you publish your
name and your services,
anyone on the internet can discover them.
You don't have to set
your network up this way.
If you are managing
an enterprise network,
you probably don't even want that.
You probably want your services
registered securely behind a firewall,
and DNS offers us that
kind of flexibility.
Using techniques like split namespaces,
you can do much as you
do with your website,
having your publicly visible website
as well as an internal website that's
only visible behind the firewall.
This brings us to another advantage
of using the domain name system.
Not only are there so
many technical advantages,
but we also get this wealth
of administrative expertise.
There are already thousands of people,
many of them are in this room,
who know how to set up a DNS server.
And guess what?
Now you're also a wide area
Rendezvous administrative expert.
If you're an administrator deciding
how you're going to set up your
wide area Rendezvous network,
or you're an application
developer planning to publish your
services into the dot max system,
it's worth thinking a bit about
what kind of visibility you want and
what this visibility means for you.
Well, let's take the extreme example,
the .Mac example.
When you publish your services,
anyone can find them from anywhere,
but that's where it stops, at discovery.
Once someone discovers the service,
they'll have to connect to your service,
and it's up to you to have the kind
of access control and security that's
appropriate for your application.
So what's the message?
Secure your apps.
But as it turns out,
this discovery mechanism doesn't actually
introduce any new vulnerabilities.
If a hacker wants to,
if you're providing a service,
they could find you even
without this kind of discovery.
What this does is it just makes it
easier for those with legitimate
reasons to find your services and
be able to interact with them.
Now, one area that's particularly
challenging in terms of visibility is
networks that are behind NAT gateways.
As you might know,
a NAT allows a single public
IP address to be shared amongst
a number of private addresses.
For example,
an airport base station plugged
into a DSL line often acts as a NAT.
Now,
the NAT detects outbound connections,
say one of the machines
talking to a web server,
and it'll change the addresses in
the packets to make them look right,
and it'll remember this outbound request,
so when a reply comes,
it'll know which machine behind
the gateway to send it to.
Unfortunately,
there's no way for the NAT to
know when a machine behind it
is actually providing a service,
and there's no way for machines outside
of the gateway to connect to these
machines with their private addresses.
Now, the reality of networking today is
that machines are more and more finding
themselves behind these NAT gateways,
and it's simply not acceptable
to force them into this cloud
of isolation if they're in this
kind of a network configuration.
That's why we've created
a NAT traversal protocol.
It's a very simple protocol that allows
a machine behind a NAT gateway to learn
its public IP address and to request
a public port that... It can then
maintain with a lease life and a refresh,
much like DHCP.
And this effectively allows
machines behind the NAT gateway
to be able to accept connections,
incoming connections,
from outside of that gateway.
Thank you.
I'm glad to hear that you're
all enthusiastic about this.
And of course,
following in the Rendezvous tradition,
this is an open specification,
which is now available in a
preliminary form on our websites.
And if you're interested in
using this in your products,
by all means, come talk to us.
Now,
this protocol is highly complementary
to Wide Area Rendezvous,
but it turns out that the
Rendezvous stack is also the
ideal place to implement it.
In Wide Area Rendezvous,
we use the protocol to find
what our public IP address is,
so that when we register
our names in the DNS,
we're registering a public address
that can be reached from anywhere.
When an application registers a service
using our service registration APIs,
we'll go ahead and take care
of the NAT mapping for them.
We'll maintain the
leases and the refreshes,
and all of this is completely
hidden from the client.
You don't even have to worry about it.
Now if for some reason
you don't want this,
if you don't want a port map for you,
just register your service
in the local domain only,
and we won't do any kind of
wide area registration for you,
we won't create any NAT mappings for you,
but your service will continue
to work on the local network.
Now,
this protocol gives us huge flexibility
in terms of the range of visibility.
And all of a sudden,
we can have a person registering a
service on one side of the globe and
someone discovering it on the other.
And as this physical distance increases,
we clearly need some kind
of authentication mechanism
for publishing our services.
Take, for instance, the .max service.
If we had this without any
kind of authentication,
someone could register something,
say a photo share, in my domain.
Other people will discover it,
think it's mine,
and when they resolve it,
they will actually get directed
to this imposter's machine.
And who knows,
we might end up finding pictures that
I just don't want my grandmother to see.
Fortunately,
DNS standards provide us with
an easy solution for this.
We use the Transaction
Signature Resource Record,
also known as a T-SIG.
And what this is, is a cryptographic hash
of the dynamic update,
which includes all of the messages,
pardon me, all of the records and the
services that we'll be publishing,
as well as a shared secret known
by my machine and the server.
And this effectively allows the
server to determine that I do,
in fact, have the authorization
to publish the data.
publish records in a given domain.
Now, all of this is available
with Wide Area Rendezvous,
and in the .Mac case,
it just works seamlessly.
But it's not required
as part of the protocol.
If you're setting an open network
that's behind a firewall with a
relatively small number of users,
you might decide that you
don't even need authentication.
You got by with AppleTalk for
years without it,
and you trust your employees.
You don't have to have it.
You have that kind of flexibility.
Now,
looking at all these different pieces,
the authentication, the NAT traversal,
the dynamic updates, the queries,
we get a more detailed architecture.
of the Wide Area Rendezvous system.
And what this really is, is
A novel combination of existing
technologies in a way that provides a
very valuable and powerful experience.
But if you look at this long enough,
and believe me we did,
eventually you'll find some holes.
Let's look under the discovery side.
With local Rendezvous,
we have this notion
of a long-lived query.
When we start a browse, say in iChat,
you get all the answers that
are available on the network,
and your list immediately populates.
But this browse, this query,
maintains for the length of
time you have that window open.
So as new services become available,
or old services go away,
your list is updated.
So, the Rendezvous is live, it's snappy,
and it provides that great
experience that we all like.
Unfortunately,
there's no equivalent with unicast DNS.
We have a couple options here.
We could deal with stale data,
we could maybe add a refresh
button to your application,
and if you've ever heard
Stuart talk before,
you know you're more likely to see
a pig fly out of your PowerBook.
Or we could pull the server very rapidly
and find out about changes that way.
Now,
that would make us fall back into the
chattiness that plagued AppleTalk,
and it would completely preclude
this kind of scalability that we need
for a half a million users in .Mac.
So it looks like the
DNS standards got us pretty close,
but they stopped a little bit short of
giving us the solution that we need.
As it turns out,
DNS actually comes through by
offering its own extension mechanism.
This is called EDNS0,
and it's a standard way of enhancing
the DNS protocol to provide new
functionality as it becomes necessary.
We use this extension mechanism
to create long-lived queries.
This is a special kind of query
where we ask the server to give us
all of the answers that it knows,
and then to continue to tell us
as new answers become available,
or answers that it previously
gave us become invalid.
This provides the same kind
of browsing experience that
we have on the local network,
while still being high
performance and highly scalable.
Similarly, on the registration side,
we've got a piece missing
under dynamic update.
With Dynamic Update,
we publish a resource
record into the database,
and it stays there
until we deregister it.
Which works fine some of the time,
but imagine I plug my laptop
into the Ethernet jack,
and I register a bunch of services,
and then I unplug the cable.
Well, guess what?
Those services stay up there on the DNS,
even though my machine
is no longer reachable,
and they'll stay there indefinitely.
For this problem, we end up with the same
stale data problem,
and we address this too with
the EDNS0 extension mechanism.
We add a lease life to resource
records so that we tell the server
to publish them and hold them
for a certain amount of time,
which we can periodically
refresh if we need to.
And then if the machine becomes
disconnected from the network or
the power goes out or what have you,
before too long the server will realize
that the machine isn't there anymore,
the lease has expired,
and it will actually go ahead and
remove those records from its database.
Now, these extensions are done with
DNS's native extension mechanism,
but they clearly require some kind
of modification to the server.
And there are a couple ways
we can make this happen.
In the .max servers,
because they were designed
specifically for wide area Rendezvous,
these extensions are supported natively.
It can do long-lived queries and
it can handle lease lives just
like it can standard queries
and standard dynamic updates.
But we design these extensions so
that they can also be implemented
as a side process running next to
a stock unmodified name server.
This is what we do with
our Tiger offering.
We use bind9, which is tried and tested
and it works great.
And next to it,
we will have a process that
understands the long-lived queries,
understands the lease lives,
and essentially acts as a broker
between the clients and the servers.
And specifications,
preliminary specifications for these
extensions are posted on the website,
and you're welcome to take a look
at them and implement them in
your servers if you so choose.
Looking at implementation,
it's worth taking a look at what kind
of application implementation and
what kind of application changes need
to be made to take advantage of this.
In our discovery APIs,
you might have wondered why
we have this domain parameter.
After all, it's always just been local.
Well, now you see why.
In fact,
we've encouraged you as developers
to not explicitly specify a domain
when you make your registration calls
and when you make your browse calls.
Just pass the empty string and
let us pick something for you.
And up until now,
that's always just been local.
But now that we have this new capability,
we can make intelligent choices
for you about where to browse
and where to publish services.
For example,
a default browser registration call
might take place both on the local
network and in a user's .mac domain.
Now, of course,
if you have explicit needs, by all means,
pass an explicit domain.
If your service really only makes sense
in the context of the local network,
then just pass local.
Likewise, if you want to be looking in a
specific .mac member's domain,
perhaps for some kind of a
collaborative application or a game,
then just pass that domain.
that member's domain.
If you want to,
we have calls that will provide
a list of available domains that
you can browse and register in,
and you can actually let your client
pick one in a graphical user interface.
These enumeration calls have
been around all the time,
and up until now they've
only returned local,
but now they'll return local as
well as one or more .mac domains,
and possibly even other domains that we
learn about from our network environment.
Enough of hearing me talk,
let's take a look at how some
real applications use this stuff.
Can we go to the demo, please?
Are we-- demo three?
Thank you.
Here we have a tiger machine.
Here we have a Tiger machine.
And as you can see,
I'm in the .mac prefs pane,
and there's this new tab called Domains.
This allows us to turn
on the .mac DNS service.
I've checked it on here and you
can see the name of my computer:
portable.kiren.members.mac.com.
kiren.members.mac.com is my personal
domain where I can register in,
and portable is the name of this machine
that I've set in our sharing prefs pane.
Now this is a standard DNS name,
you can use it in the connect to dialog,
you can use it in the terminal,
anything that takes a DNS name.
We can also use Rendezvous for browsing,
of course.
We don't have to use
this name explicitly.
We can take a look at
Safari in the Rendezvous tab,
and sure enough,
I'm actually not seeing anything,
I'm not seeing any
Rendezvous shares here.
Let's see if we can't figure
out why that's happening.
I have a machine at home and I want
to be able to see its website
and I thought it was publishing
into .Mac and I know I have
Apple Remote Desktop turned on there.
So let's see if I can't actually get
into it and see what's happening.
Now, here too I could enter the
name of my home machine,
but I don't have to.
Here we have an unmodified application,
Apple Remote Desktop,
that does Rendezvous browsing and
doesn't specify an explicit domain.
So the system goes ahead and publishes
both locally and in my .map domain.
And here we can see my desktop
machine with its IP address here,
which is not on our local network.
And I can go ahead and add it.
And here we see the difference
between discovery and actual access.
Anyone can discover that
I have Apple Remote Desktop,
but you still need the correct
authorization to access the machine.
And now I can connect to it.
Here too we can see that
I have .mac turned on,
.mac domains turned on,
and that's why I was able to see it
from here in the conference room.
And you can see its name, desktop,
in my same personal domain.
Now, let's take a look at why
web sharing wasn't working.
Well, that would explain it.
It's not turned on.
So we can look back in
our Safari browser here,
and Safari has a long-lived query
established with the server,
which means that it's
asked for all the answers,
and in fact there weren't any,
but the server will continue to
tell it as new answers come about.
So, if I go ahead and turn
on web sharing here,
it'll fire up Apache,
register my services both on my local
network at home and in my .Mac domain.
Go ahead and turn it on.
It takes a few seconds
for Safari to launch,
and there it is.
It's amazing to think about how
many things have to happen there.
The registration has to send
the records to the DNS server.
The DNS has to notice this change and
send the notification to my machine here.
And it's still just as snappy
as it is on the local network.
You can see it disappear and reappear.
It actually takes longer for
Apache to fire up than it does for
the registration to take place.
And we can go ahead and double
click on it and resolve the
service to the IP address and
the port of my machine back home.
And there you can see the web page
that's running on my desktop computer.
Now, I like this WIP web page and I think
I'm actually going to print out a copy.
Let's see.
I don't see any printers
here on the network.
Let's see if I can add one.
Go ahead and add.
Oh, what's that?
Because the printer sharing
is also doing the same default
browsers and registrations,
it's able to look in my .mac
domain and see this printer
that's registered at home and
actually go ahead and print to it.
So, can we go back to the slides, please?
Seeing this work in real applications
allows us to look at this architecture
and say that it really is a solid
architecture that makes great
use of existing technologies and
provides a really powerful technology
for all of you guys to leverage.
At the end of the day,
most of the stuff is really
just implementation details.
What this is, is really fundamentally
DNS service discovery.
It's the message format
that we've had before.
It's the same APIs that you guys
already have in your applications.
And most importantly,
it's the same user experience
that all of us and all of our
customers have come to love.
I'm really excited about this
technology and I'm even more excited
to see what you guys do with it.
But this is really just a part of
what's new in Rendezvous for Tiger.
So with that, I'd like to turn it
back to Stuart Cheishir.
Thank you Kiren.
So, next big announcement,
which I think will make a
lot of people very happy,
is Rendezvous on Windows.
So what's there?
We have a system service daemon
running in the background,
just like on OS X.
We have a client DLL that
clients link with in order to
communicate with that daemon,
and we have Java support
as well for Java clients.
In the developer preview that we have
on the developer.apple.com web page,
we have a couple of sample clients
to illustrate how you can use this.
One is a plugin for
Internet Explorer that gives you
a Rendezvous icon in the toolbar,
very much like in Safari where you can
browse to find Rendezvous services.
We also have a printer setup wizard to
illustrate how you can find printers
and set them up effortlessly in Windows.
But of course the big news here
is we have the header file and the
stub library for all you developers
to link with your applications,
so you can advertise services and
add Rendezvous menus and Rendezvous
browsers in your application software.
You can get it today from
the developers.apple.com
website in macos10/rendezvous.
And if you'd like to
license this installer,
like maybe the way some of you license
the QuickTime for Windows installer,
then send us an email and let us know.
So now I'm going to
show you a quick demo.
And we will need--
We need this demo machine,
the VGA connection, please.
All right.
Let's run Internet Explorer and
see what we see.
Oh, that was quick.
We have...
We have one of these Axis
cameras on the network.
This runs Linux.
Axis is the world's leading
maker of network cameras,
and they've now decided
to adopt Rendezvous.
We have one of Axis's print servers here,
plugs in the parallel port,
turns your printer
into a network printer.
What else?
We have this little printer
thing from Intercon.
Let's try connecting to that.
And a lot of these devices in the
past would have had a serial port
that you plug a terminal into and
you configure it in a VT100 terminal,
and that's very '70s.
But the serial port and the VT100
terminal was kind of the universal
user interface of the 1970s.
And the universal user interface
of this decade is the web browser.
So a lot of these devices that don't
have any screen or keyboard are
configured through the web browser,
which is great if you can find it.
And of course,
Rendezvous gives you the answer,
so we can find all of these things and
they show up just like they do in Safari.
But the thing that I'm sure you'll
all want to see if you've ever tried
to use a network printer is this.
So let's see what we have on the network.
We'll click Next.
There's an HP LaserJet
somewhere in this building,
not mine.
But we have the SEH Intercom print server
plugged into this old Epson printer here.
and it recognizes that
it's a Stylus Color 740,
and now we're ready to set up a printer.
I actually wanted them not to have
all these next and back buttons.
I just want one button here that says,
"I'm feeling lucky."
So that was it.
Effortless setting up
of Windows printing.
So on that note,
let's go back to the slides, please.
So as well as Windows,
we also have support
for the Unix platforms,
for Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris.
Same story.
There's a background daemon,
there are system scripts to
start it up at boot time,
there's a shared library
for clients to link to,
and there's the same header
file as Mac and Windows,
and there's the same Java support,
so the same Java applications
will run unchanged.
We don't have an
installer on the website,
but that's available in Darwin,
and if you check out the
top-of-tree Darwin code and run
make install in the POSIX folder,
it will install those five or
six files where they need to go.
So let me show you a quick demo of that.
Let's go back to the VGA feed, please.
So if you've looked in the
Darwin project in the clients folder,
we have a sample command line
client to exercise all of the DNS,
SD, APIs.
You can browse, you can register,
you can resolve.
It's about 400 lines of C,
and it's a big switch statement
that does all the different calls.
So if you're using Rendezvous,
then that's a good place to start,
to just copy and paste the little
chunk of code that you need.
And of course, it compiles and runs
on Linux just the same.
And I'm going to show just a simple,
let's browse for HTTP.
Any advertised HTTP servers,
and then we see the same things that
showed up in Explorer and in Safari.
And if we look for things that
are offering IPP printing service,
we will see those two show up.
So, the same APIs there,
and we're really excited talking
to the people who make web browsers
and other software that runs on
Linux to start adding these calls
into their applications so that they
can have Rendezvous menus as well.
Okay, back to the slides.
And with that,
I would like to invite Roger Panthos
to come up on stage and tell you all
about using Rendezvous from Java.
Thank you, Stuart.
So my name is Roger Panthos,
and I work with Stuart and
Kiren at Apple on Rendezvous.
And what I'd like to do today is
spend about 10 minutes telling
you about the Rendezvous interface
that we've built for Java.
So from the point of view of a
Java applications programmer,
the most interesting,
kind of the most fun thing
to do is service discovery.
And so that's what the work
we've done kind of centers on.
What it consists of is a new API,
a new set of classes for
Java that gives you access to the
complete set of service discovery
facilities that Rendezvous offers.
What that gives you is complete access
to the entire service discovery system.
And that's linked to the system
implementation of Rendezvous,
which means this is a
system-level implementation.
This is not running in your Java program
as in previous zero-conf implementations.
So it means you get the benefit of the
system-wide resource record caching.
It means you get the performance
that every other client gets.
It means you get the benefit of
all the additional work we've
done in our reference server on
things like duplicate suppression,
the efficiency,
and all the bug fixes we've made to MDNS.
Now, the Java support is also built in
to our reference implementation.
When you build it on Windows or on
MacOSX or on Linux or on FreeBSD,
you get the Java support as well.
And when we deliver
Rendezvous on a platform,
we deliver the Java support.
And so our intent is that if you have
Rendezvous on your platform at all,
and you have a Java VM,
then a Java application can
run on your platform and it
can use the Rendezvous APIs.
So let's talk about the Rendezvous
APIs a little more closely.
[Transcript missing]
So the first thing that my little
Browse for Printers does is it
sends a message to my factory class,
DNSSD, sends it a browse message,
and it's sending it _IPP,
look for printers.
It's also passing it
a reference to itself,
because it implements the
browse listener interface.
One of the methods that the
BrowseListener interface
defines is service found.
You can see what's going to happen
here is it's going to ask Rendezvous
to go find all the printers.
Rendezvous will do that,
and then it's going to call this
implementation back with the results.
In this case,
all it's doing is printing out the
results it finds in the console.
But that, in a nutshell,
is Rendezvous programming in Java.
This is browsing.
Once we find something,
we want to register it,
or rather we want to resolve it.
And so resolution is
the same kind of deal.
We've got an interface,
which is a resolved listener.
It defines a callback,
which is service resolved.
And so you send a message to the DNSSD,
and it gets resolved.
Registering service, again, very similar.
You send the DNSSD a register message,
I guess, with it saying, "Hey,
I want to register a
website that's called me.
It's an HTTP thing.
We're going to pass it to this
reference." We implement the
register listener callback,
and we get called back once
the registration is complete.
So we could spend some more
time talking about the API,
but I thought it might
be cool to have a demo.
So let's go over to
demo two here on screen.
And here it is.
We can, let's hide this guy.
Not yet, but pretty soon.
Okay, so I guess when you're bringing
up a Rendezvous on a new
platform for the first time,
it's kind of traditional
to create a browser.
And you can see Stuart,
we've got the browser from Cocoa here.
I wrote a little browser in Java as well.
And so here's my Java app.
It's a couple of pages of swing code.
And you can see it's looking in the,
I just lost my mouse.
I
Maybe we're... There we go.
Okay, we're good.
So it's looking in the local domain here,
and it's found a number of different
services that are being advertised.
So you can see we've got
a Java application here.
It's using Rendezvous.
It's finding all kinds
of different services.
So that's kind of interesting.
But then we decided to
have a little more fun.
And so what I built was
kind of the world's simplest
peer-to-peer chat program.
That's called Simple Chat.
And so I'm going to run it here.
And what you can see is going on is
that we've got this pop-up menu here.
And right now,
it only sees a single thing,
which is itself.
But if I could get Stuart to
double-click on the Windows machine here,
I'm going to... We've got a
whole bunch of machines up here.
But if we can get Stuart to
run Simple Chat on Windows,
Stuart is actually...
His name is also Tim.
It's kind of his nickname.
And so he's typing away in there, and...
We borrowed Tim's PC,
and I can send him a message in theory.
And if we want to switch over to the
VGA feed for a second on demo three,
we can see it running on--
on Linux machine.
And we can see it running under Windows,
I hope.
There it is.
So, that's
So if we could switch back to
demo two just for one more second.
Simple Chat is actually,
it's really small.
It's only like four pages of code.
But it's nice in that it illustrates
three major aspects of using Rendezvous.
First of all, registration.
When you run simple text,
it registers itself on a network
as an instance of simple,
I think, underscore P2P chat.
The next thing it does is it
wants to populate this menu
of things it can talk to.
And so it browses for
instances of P2P chat,
finds itself in a bunch of other things.
And then third, when you actually select
something from that pop-up menu,
then we resolve the service.
We discover the host you're running on,
discover the port you're running on,
and from there on in,
we just send UDP packets back and forth.
Now, just as with every other
Rendezvous browser,
this is live.
And so as you can see,
I've got Tim up there in the pop-up menu.
What I'm going to ask Stuart is,
is quit Simple Chat on his machine,
and you'll see Tim disappears,
and it goes back to Apple.
So of course, it's live,
just like any other Rendezvous service.
So.
The next step is for you folks
to start playing with this stuff.
If we could go back to the slides,
please.
How are we going to do that?
Well,
first order of business is documentation.
Documentation, of course,
is in Javadoc format.
It is provided on the TigerSeed,
so if you've installed the TigerSeed,
you already have it on your disk.
In addition,
for those who are not running Tiger,
or perhaps running Darwin,
using Darwin on Linux,
or perhaps on Windows,
we actually provide the
Javadoc as a makefile target,
and so you can generate
the Javadoc yourself.
And of course, as a last resort,
we also have a mailing list,
and so it's rendezvousatlist.apple.com.
If you just go to list.apple.com,
you can find that mailing list.
I know many of you are
already signed up to that.
So that's how to find out how to use it.
Some of you are probably
wondering how you actually get it,
or maybe more to the point,
how your customers get it.
So let's talk about delivery.
So at the basic level, the Java support,
as an additional piece to Rendezvous,
consists of two files.
One is a jar file,
which contains the Java classes,
the implementation of our interface.
And that jar file is
platform independent.
It's the same on all platforms.
The next part we have is a JNI library,
a Java Native Interface Library.
And that is designed to adapt the
platform independent Java classes to the
specific instance of the DNS SD DLL that
you're running on on whichever platform.
And our intent is to deliver
both of these onto the machine
when you install Rendezvous.
And so this, for most of you,
should be a detail.
The other thing is we
are shipping with Tiger,
and as Stuart said,
we are also shipping it with Windows.
And so our intent is that when we deliver
Rendezvous to customers in binary form,
that the Java libraries will be there
and you'll be able to depend on them.
So that, in a nutshell, is the Java APIs.
I hope that you try them out,
you send us feedback,
and you build some great stuff with them.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Roger.
We're getting close to the end.
Time to wrap up.
We have really no
changes to the main APIs.
The only new ones we have I want
to tell you about quickly now.
When you advertise a service,
you can attach name value
pairs to that service,
and when you resolve,
you retrieve those name value pairs.
And those can be useful to store various
attributes that describe the service.
Particularly with printers,
they store attributes like the version
of PostScript and things like that
that the client might want to know.
Those text records have to be
formatted as standard DNS text records,
and that's not difficult.
It's length, byte, and data,
but we just made some helper functions.
So now when you advertise a service,
you create an empty text record,
you do set value, set value, set value,
and then you pass that text
record you've created to the
standard DNS service register call.
When you resolve, and when you receive a
text record off the wire,
we have a couple of functions to tell
whether a certain key is present.
And to get the value
for a given named key.
Those are the only new
APIs we have to add.
At the higher levels that build on top
of the DNS SD.h API core foundation,
they have some minor changes which they
talked about at their session on Tuesday.
And I would like to go back
to the Podium demo machine,
not the VGA, the Mac you have here.
And I am...
In the few minutes we have remaining,
I told people if they brought
things to the Plugfest last night,
we'd try to show them on stage,
and we got a lot more
things than we expected.
This is a music device from Roku.
Really nice.
I'm going to buy one of these with my
own money when they start shipping them.
Really nice, bright,
fluorescent display on it.
Control it with a remote control,
play your iTunes music.
But that's not what I'm
going to show you today.
I'm not going to show you music playing.
What I'm going to show you is
what they used in development,
which is
If you go to the Connect to Server menu
in Terminal and select Telnet,
you see the sound bridge shows up
because for development purposes
they have a Telnet interface to it,
and you
So same kind of problem,
how do you configure this thing?
Well, now it just shows up in the
Connect to Server menu in Terminal.
I said that the serial port was
the user interface of the 70s,
and the web browser was the
user interface of the 90s.
Something I think is a very interesting
direction that the world is going
is a network protocol called VNC,
for virtual network computing.
It's a way of seeing the
screen of a remote machine.
And this little box here is
some rack mount equipment for
music studios to mix music.
And inside it's a PC,
it's got a VGA port on the back so you
can hook up a keyboard and a monitor,
but you really don't want to be
sitting cross-legged on the floor
with a monitor on your lap plugged
into this thing in the rack.
So it would be much nicer if you
could access this over the network.
Well, it runs a VNC client,
which is nice, but how do you know
what IP address it has?
Well, the answer is...
I don't really care
what IP address it has,
because it does Rendezvous.
And we just select that,
and it finds the address.
This is a beta unit,
so sometimes the display doesn't show up.
The other thing I found
that was very interesting is
There are lots of other things on
this network advertising Rendezvous
VNC that I didn't even know about.
So, don't know what that's about,
but I think
Building a user interface in a web
browser for configuring a device is
something that's very easy to do,
but sometimes a web interface
doesn't give you everything you want,
whereas VNC lets you
push the pixels you want.
So I think Rendezvous-advertised VNC is
going to be an interesting direction for
future interfaces for network devices.
So on that note,
let's go back to the slides,
and we will wrap up.
For more information,
Craig Keithley is our
developer relations evangelist.
He's the man to go to with
all of your questions.
If you've got technical developer
questions about making things
work or design questions or hints,
the Rendezvous mailing
list is a great resource.
Not just Apple people,
but hundreds of other third party
developers are on that list,
and it's a great community for people
working together to solve their problems.
Of course, one of the big benefits of
Rendezvous is when multiple people
do things that interoperate.
So, being the only VNC client that
advertises with Rendezvous is less
useful than having all VNC clients
and servers advertise the same
service type with Rendezvous.
So, community communication
is very important.
On the Tiger CD you
have this documentation,
and if you go to the ADC home
reference library page,
then you can click around the links.
There's a lot of sample code
and documentation there as well.
Quick run through the URLs.
Zeroconf.org is the umbrella
website for the zero
configuration networking efforts.
It builds on multicast DNS and
DNS service discovery as two
of the enabling technologies.
Of course,
we have the Apple developer pages
that also have links to these
sites at developer.apple.com.
The mailing list I already mentioned,
very important.
And if you're not tired
of hearing me talk yet,
you can come back at
the end of this month.
I'll be giving a Rendezvous
tutorial focusing on cross-platform
Rendezvous at the O'Reilly
Open Source Convention in Portland,
Oregon at the end of this month.